---
layout: post
title:  "HackIndia 2015"
date:   2015-08-22
tags:
  - hack
  - hackathon
---


I got to know about India's largest hackathon of this year [hackIndia 2015][1]. Well, at least it supposed or claimed to be that. Though I was late but anyhow I managed to get all the tickets to be part of this event. I was super excited as it was going to be my first hackathon for which I was traveling to another city and state.

###Positive Points
It was a new experience to meet new people, work together, collaborate with them to form a team and build a product. I met teammates who were strangers before, we formed a team and were the only "all girls" team there, and hence people were noticing and appreciating it. We built an application [Solidarity of Sisters][2] which is aimed to help females who are subjected to any crime. This application led us to the final part, presentation round of hackathon. There were totally 5 batches for this round and each batch had 15 teams. We managed to present our application and got positive feedbacks from judges.

###Negative points that gave Positive learning
Being one of those who stayed till end of the event, I learned "how not to do things, the hard way". There was a lot of mismanagement. There was a lesson to observe and learn at each and every step, what not to do while conducting such a large hackathon. Overall 800 people participated and many of them left the event in between because of lack of proper management. I learned how to make arrangements for providing accommodation to let participants sleep at night and for food on time. Making a proper balance of capability of providing internet and accepting number of applications is necessary to take in account before anything else. No doubt with power comes huge responsibility. I realized and learned that if you are making huge claims then you should work enough hard to plan and execute them to meet those claims.

So I got less out of the hackathon because I was expecting a lot. But I learned new things which I wasn't expecting. I realized my capabilities of building an application without internet. And got many lessons to conduct a hackathon or any event in a better way. I am looking forward to move ahead and participate in more hackathons to learn more both expectedly and unexpectedly. 


[1]: https://hackindia.io/
[2]: http://devpost.com/software/sos-solidarity-of-sisters-6qaoyx